Intro to HIP Programming Model (#3739)
ROCm-Developer-Tools/HIP: docs/understand/programming_model.rst

.. _programming_model:

*******************************************************************************
Introduction to HIP programming model
*******************************************************************************

> The HIP programming model makes it easy to map data-parallel C/C++ algorithms to

Reviewer: My suggestion would be

"The HIP programming model enables mapping data-parallel C/C++ algorithms to massively parallel SIMD (Single Instruction, Multiple Data) architectures like GPUs."

Author: Done

While GPUs may be capable of running applications written for CPUs if properly ported
and compiled, it would not be an efficient use of GPU resources. GPUs are different
from CPUs in fundamental ways, and should be used accordingly to achieve optimum
performance. A basic understanding of the underlying device architecture helps you
make efficient use of HIP and general purpose graphics processing unit (GPGPU)
programming in general. The following topics introduce you to the key concepts of 
GPU-based programming, and the HIP programming model. 

Hardware differences: CPU vs GPU
================================

CPUs and GPUs have been designed for different purposes. CPUs have been designed
to quickly execute a single thread, decreasing the time it takes for a single
operation, increasing the amount of sequential instructions that can be executed.
This includes fetching data, and reducing pipeline stalls where the ALU has to
wait for previous instructions to finish. 

On CPUs the goal is to quickly process operations. CPUs provide low latency processing for
serial instructions. On the other hand, GPUs have been designed to execute many similar commands, or threads,

> in parallel, achieving higher throughput. Latency is the delay from when an operation

Reviewer: My suggestion would be 

"Latency is the time between starting an operation and receiving its result (e.g., 2 ns), while throughput is the rate of completed operations (e.g., operations per second)."

2.	Indexing: The kernel computes the unique index for each thread to access the relevant data to be processed by the thread.  
3.	Data Fetch: Threads fetch input data from memory previously transferred from the host to the device. As described in :ref:`memory_hierarchy`, the hierarchy of threads is influenced by the memory subsystem of GPUs. The memory hierarchy includes local memory per-thread with very fast access, shared memory for the block of threads which also supports quick access, and larger amounts of global memory visible to the whole kernel,but accesses are expensive due to high latency. Understanding the memory model is a key concept for kernel programming.
4.	Computation: Threads perform the required computations on the input data, and generate any needed output. Each thread of the kernel runs the same instruction simultaneously on the different datasets. This sometimes require multiple iterations when the number of operations exceeds the resources of the CU. 
5.	Synchronization: When needed, threads synchronize within their block to ensure correct results when working with shared memory.

> Kernels can be simple single instruction programs deployed across multiple threads in wavefronts, as described below and as demonstrated in the `Hello World tutorial <https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-examples/tree/develop/HIP-Basic/hello_world>`_ or :doc:`../tutorial/saxpy`. However, heterogeneous GPU applications can also become quite complex, managing hundreds, thousands, or hundreds of thousands of operations with repeated data transfers between host and device to support massive parallelization, using multiple streams to manage concurrent asynchronous operations, using rich libraries of functions optimized for GPU hardware as described in the `ROCm documentation <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/en/latest/>`_. 

Reviewer: I'd suggest

"Kernels are parallel programs that execute the same instruction set across multiple threads organized in wavefronts"

parallel SIMD (Single Instruction, Multiple Data) architectures like GPUs. HIP
supports many imperative languages, such as Python via PyHIP, but this document
focuses on the original C/C++ API of HIP.

While GPUs may be capable of running applications written for CPUs if properly ported
and compiled, it would not be an efficient use of GPU resources. GPUs fundamentally differ
from CPUs and should be used accordingly to achieve optimum
performance. A basic understanding of the underlying device architecture helps you
make efficient use of HIP and general purpose graphics processing unit (GPGPU)
programming in general. The following topics introduce you to the key concepts of 
GPU-based programming and the HIP programming model. 

Hardware differences: CPU vs GPU
================================

CPUs and GPUs have been designed for different purposes. CPUs quickly execute a single thread, decreasing the time for a single operation while increasing the number of sequential instructions that can be executed. This includes fetching data and reducing pipeline stalls where the ALU has to wait for previous instructions to finish. 

> .. figure:: ../data/understand/programming_model/cpu-gpu-comparison-adjusted.svg

Author: ```suggestion
.. figure:: ../data/understand/programming_model/cpu-gpu-comparison.svg
```

  :alt: Diagram depicting the differences between CPU and GPU hardware.
        The CPU block shows four large processing cores, lists Large Cache per
        Core, and High Clock Speed of 3 to 5 gigahertz. The GPU block shows 42
        smaller processing cores, lists Shared Memory across Cores, and Lower

>         Clock SPeeds of 1 to 2 gigahertz.  

Author: ```suggestion
        Clock Speeds of 1 to 2 gigahertz.  
```

  Differences in CPUs and GPUs

With CPUs, the goal is to quickly process operations. CPUs provide low-latency processing for
serial instructions. On the other hand, GPUs have been designed to execute many similar commands, or threads,
in parallel, achieving higher throughput. Latency is the time between starting an
operation and receiving its result, such as 2 ns, while throughput is the rate of
completed operations, for example, operations per second.

For the GPU, the objective is to process as many operations in parallel, rather
than to finish a single instruction quickly. GPUs in general are made up of basic
building blocks called compute units (CUs), that execute the threads of a kernel.
As described in :ref:`hardware_implementation`, these CUs provide the necessary
resources for the threads: the Arithmetic Logical Units (ALUs), register files,
caches and shared memory for efficient communication between the threads.

> The following defines a few hardware differences between CPUs and GPUs: 

Author: ```suggestion
The following describes a few hardware differences between CPUs and GPUs: 
```

  .. note::
    HIP performs implicit synchronization on occasions, unlike some
    APIs where the responsibility for synchronization is left to the user.

Host programming
----------------

In heterogeneous programming, the CPU is available for processing operations but the host application has the additional task of managing data and computation exchanges between the CPU (host) and GPU (device). The host acts as the application manager, coordinating the overall workflow and directing operations to the appropriate context, handles data preparation and data transfers, and manages GPU tasks and synchronization. Here is a typical sequence of operations:

1.	Initialize the HIP runtime and select the GPU: As described in :ref:`initialization`, refers to identifying and selecting a target GPU, setting up a context to let the CPU interact with the GPU.  
2.	Data preparation: As discussed in :ref:`memory_management`, this includes allocating the required memory on the host and device, preparing input data and transferring it from the host to the device. The data is both transferred to the device, and passed as an input parameter when launching the kernel. 

> 3.	Configure and launch the kernel on the GPU: As described in :ref:`device_program`, define and load the kernel or kernels to be run, launch kernels using the triple chevron syntax or appropriate API call (for example ``hipLaunchKernelGGL``), and pass parameters as needed. On the GPU, kernels run on streams, or a queue of operations. Within the same stream, operations run in the order they were issued, but different streams are independent and can execute concurrently. In the HIP runtime, kernels run on the default stream when one is not specified, but specifying a stream for the kernel lets you increase concurrency in task scheduling and resource utilization, and launch and manage multiple kernels from the host program.

Reviewer 2: "define and load the kernel or kernels to be run, launch kernels using the triple chevron syntax or appropriate API call (for example ``hipLaunchKernelGGL``), and pass parameters as needed. On the GPU, kernels run on streams, or a queue of operations."
Should be 
"defines kernel configurations and arguments, launches kernel to excute on the GPU device using the triple chevron syntax or appropriate API call (for example hipLaunchKernelGGL). On the GPU, multiple kernels can run on streams, with a queue of operations. "

> 3.	Configure and launch the kernel on the GPU: As described in :ref:`device_program`, define and load the kernel or kernels to be run, launch kernels using the triple chevron syntax or appropriate API call (for example ``hipLaunchKernelGGL``), and pass parameters as needed. On the GPU, kernels run on streams, or a queue of operations. Within the same stream, operations run in the order they were issued, but different streams are independent and can execute concurrently. In the HIP runtime, kernels run on the default stream when one is not specified, but specifying a stream for the kernel lets you increase concurrency in task scheduling and resource utilization, and launch and manage multiple kernels from the host program.

Author: ```suggestion
3.	Configure and launch the kernel on the GPU: As described in :ref:`device_program`, this defines kernel configurations and arguments, launches kernel to run on the GPU device using the triple chevron syntax or appropriate API call (for example ``hipLaunchKernelGGL``). On the GPU, multiple kernels can run on streams, with a queue of operations. Within the same stream, operations run in the order they were issued, but multiple streams are independent and can execute concurrently. In the HIP runtime, kernels run on the default stream when one is not specified, but specifying a stream for the kernel lets you increase concurrency in task scheduling and resource utilization, and launch and manage multiple kernels from the host program.
```

> 3.	Configure and launch the kernel on the GPU: As described in :ref:`device_program`, this defines kernel configurations and arguments, launches kernel to run on the GPU device using the triple chevron syntax or appropriate API call (for example ``hipLaunchKernelGGL``). On the GPU, multiple kernels can run on streams, with a queue of operations. Within the same stream, operations run in the order they were issued, but multiple streams are independent and can execute concurrently. In the HIP runtime, kernels run on the default stream when one is not specified, but specifying a stream for the kernel lets you increase concurrency in task scheduling and resource utilization, and launch and manage multiple kernels from the host program.

Author: ```suggestion
3.	Configure and launch the kernel on the GPU: As described in :ref:`device_program`, this defines kernel configurations and arguments, launches kernel to run on the GPU device using the triple chevron syntax or appropriate API call (for example ``hipLaunchKernelGGL``). On the GPU, multiple kernels can run on streams, with a queue of operations. Within the same stream, operations run in the order they were issued, but on multiple streams operations are independent and can execute concurrently. In the HIP runtime, kernels run on the default stream when one is not specified, but specifying a stream for the kernel lets you increase concurrency in task scheduling and resource utilization, and launch and manage multiple kernels from the host program.
```

.. _programming_model_simt:

Single instruction multiple threads (SIMT)
==========================================

The HIP kernel code, written as a series of scalar instructions for multiple
threads with different thread indices, gets mapped to the SIMD units of the GPUs.
Every single instruction, which is executed for every participating thread of a
kernel, gets mapped to the SIMD.

This is done by grouping threads into warps, which contain as many threads as there
are physical lanes in a SIMD, and issuing that instruction to the SIMD for every
warp of a kernel. Ideally, the SIMD is always fully utilized. However, if the number of threads
can't be evenly divided by the warpSize, then the unused lanes are masked out
from the corresponding SIMD execution.

.. _simt:

> .. figure:: ../data/understand/programming_model/simt-execution-revised.svg

Author: ```suggestion
.. figure:: ../data/understand/programming_model/simt-execution.svg
```

.. _programming_model:

*******************************************************************************

> Introduction to HIP programming model

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Introduction to the HIP programming model
```

Reviewer 3: If change accepted, change the TOC entry

*******************************************************************************

The HIP programming model enables mapping data-parallel C/C++ algorithms to massively
parallel SIMD (Single Instruction, Multiple Data) architectures like GPUs. HIP
supports many imperative languages, such as Python via PyHIP, but this document
focuses on the original C/C++ API of HIP.

> While GPUs may be capable of running applications written for CPUs if properly ported
> and compiled, it would not be an efficient use of GPU resources. GPUs are different
> from CPUs in fundamental ways, and should be used accordingly to achieve optimum
> performance. A basic understanding of the underlying device architecture helps you

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While GPUs may be capable of running applications written for CPUs if properly ported
and compiled, it would not be an efficient use of GPU resources. GPUs fundamentally differ
from CPUs and should be used accordingly to achieve optimum
performance. A basic understanding of the underlying device architecture helps you
```

make efficient use of HIP and general purpose graphics processing unit (GPGPU)
programming in general. The following topics introduce you to the key concepts of 

> GPU-based programming, and the HIP programming model. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
GPU-based programming and the HIP programming model. 
```

Hardware differences: CPU vs GPU
================================

CPUs and GPUs have been designed for different purposes. CPUs have been designed
to quickly execute a single thread, decreasing the time it takes for a single
operation, increasing the amount of sequential instructions that can be executed.
This includes fetching data, and reducing pipeline stalls where the ALU has to

> wait for previous instructions to finish. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
CPUs and GPUs have been designed for different purposes. CPUs quickly execute a single thread, decreasing the time for a single operation while increasing the number of sequential instructions that can be executed. This includes fetching data and reducing pipeline stalls where the ALU has to wait for previous instructions to finish. 
```

> 

Reviewer 3: shouldn't there be description of the illustration in the text?

Author: Seems superfluous.

.. figure:: ../data/understand/programming_model/cpu-gpu-comparison-adjusted.svg
  :alt: Diagram depicting the differences between CPU and GPU hardware.
        The CPU block shows four large processing cores, lists Large Cache per
        Core, and High Clock Speed of 3 to 5 gigahertz. The GPU block shows 42
        smaller processing cores, lists Shared Memory across Cores, and Lower
        Clock SPeeds of 1 to 2 gigahertz.  

  Differences in CPUs and GPUs

> On CPUs the goal is to quickly process operations. CPUs provide low latency processing for

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With CPUs, the goal is to quickly process operations. CPUs provide low-latency processing for
```

serial instructions. On the other hand, GPUs have been designed to execute many similar commands, or threads,
in parallel, achieving higher throughput. Latency is the time between starting an
operation and receiving its result, such as 2 ns, while throughput is the rate of

> completed operations, for example operations per second.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
completed operations, for example, operations per second.
```

For the GPU, the objective is to process as many operations in parallel, rather
than to finish a single instruction quickly. GPUs in general are made up of basic
building blocks called compute units (CUs), that execute the threads of a kernel.
As described in :ref:`hardware_implementation`, these CUs provide the necessary
resources for the threads: the Arithmetic Logical Units (ALUs), register files,
caches and shared memory for efficient communication between the threads.

> The following defines a few hardware differences between CPUs and GPUs: 

Reviewer 3: Is define the right term?

Perhaps:
The following compares CPU and GPU hardware differences.

Author: OK.

  - One register file per thread. On modern CPUs you have at most 2 register files per core, called hyperthreading.
  - One ALU executing the thread.

    - Designed to quickly execute instructions of the same thread.
    - Complex branch prediction.

  - Large L1/L2 cache per core, shared by fewer threads (maximum of 2 when hyperthreading is available).
  - A disadvantage is switching execution from one thread to another (or context switching) takes a considerable amount of time: the ALU pipeline needs to be emptied, the register file has to be written to memory to free the register for another thread.
 
* GPU:

  - Designed for parallel processing with many simpler cores (hundreds/thousands)
  - Lower clock speeds (1-2 GHz)
  - Streamlined control logic
  - Small caches, more registers
  - Register files are shared among threads. The number of threads that can be run in parallel depends on the registers needed per thread.
  - Multiple ALUs execute a collection of threads having the same operations, also known as a wavefront or warp. This is called single-instruction, multiple threads (SIMT) operation as described in :ref:`programming_model_simt`. 

>     - The collection of ALUs is called SIMD. SIMDs are an extension to the hardware architecture, that allows a `single instruction` to concurrently operate on `multiple data` inputs. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - The collection of ALUs is called SIMD. SIMDs are an extension to the hardware architecture that allows a `single instruction` to concurrently operate on `multiple data` inputs. 
```

Reviewer 3: why using italics?

>     - For branching threads where conditional instructions lead to thread divergence, ALUs still processes the full wavefront, but the result for divergent threads is masked out. This leads to wasted ALU cycles, and should be a consideration in your programming. Keep instructions consistent, and leave conditionals out of threads.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - For branching threads where conditional instructions lead to thread divergence, ALUs still process the full wavefront, but the result for divergent threads is masked out. This leads to wasted ALU cycles and should be a consideration in your programming. Keep instructions consistent and leave conditionals out of threads.
```

  .. note::
    HIP performs implicit synchronization on occasions, unlike some
    APIs where the responsibility for synchronization is left to the user.

Host programming
----------------

In heterogeneous programming, the CPU is available for processing operations but the host application has the additional task of managing data and computation exchanges between the CPU (host) and GPU (device). The host acts as the application manager, coordinating the overall workflow and directing operations to the appropriate context, handles data preparation and data transfers, and manages GPU tasks and synchronization. Here is a typical sequence of operations:

1.	Initialize the HIP runtime and select the GPU: As described in :ref:`initialization`, refers to identifying and selecting a target GPU, setting up a context to let the CPU interact with the GPU.  
2.	Data preparation: As discussed in :ref:`memory_management`, this includes allocating the required memory on the host and device, preparing input data and transferring it from the host to the device. The data is both transferred to the device, and passed as an input parameter when launching the kernel. 

> 3.	Configure and launch the kernel on the GPU: As described in :ref:`device_program`, define and load the kernel or kernels to be run, launch kernels using the triple chevron syntax or appropriate API call (for example ``hipLaunchKernelGGL``), and pass parameters as needed. On the GPU, kernels are run on streams, or a queue of operations. Within the same stream operations run in the order they were issued, but different streams are independent and can execute concurrently. In the HIP runtime, kernels run on the default stream when one is not specified, but specifying a stream for the kernel lets you increase concurrency in task scheduling and resource utilization, and launch and manage multiple kernels from the host program.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3.	Configure and launch the kernel on the GPU: As described in :ref:`device_program`, define and load the kernel or kernels to be run, launch kernels using the triple chevron syntax or appropriate API call (for example ``hipLaunchKernelGGL``), and pass parameters as needed. On the GPU, kernels run on streams, or a queue of operations. Within the same stream, operations run in the order they were issued, but different streams are independent and can execute concurrently. In the HIP runtime, kernels run on the default stream when one is not specified, but specifying a stream for the kernel lets you increase concurrency in task scheduling and resource utilization, and launch and manage multiple kernels from the host program.
```

5.	Error handling: As described in :ref:`error_handling`, you should catch and handle potential errors from API calls, kernel launches, or memory operations. For example, use ``hipGetErrorString`` to retrieve error messages.
6.	Cleanup and resource management: Validate results, clean up GPU contexts and resources, and free allocated memory on the host and devices.

This structure allows for efficient use of GPU resources and facilitates the acceleration of compute-intensive tasks while keeping the host CPU available for other tasks.

.. figure:: ../data/understand/programming_model/host-device-flow.svg
  :alt: Diagram depicting a host CPU and device GPU rectangles of varying color.
        There are arrows pointing between the rectangles showing from the Host
        to the Device the initialization, data transfer, and Kernel execution
        steps, and from the Device back to the Host the returning results. 

  Interaction of Host and Device in a GPU application

.. _device_program:

Device programming
------------------

> The device or kernel program acts as workers on the GPU application, distributing operations to be handled quickly and efficiently. Launching a kernel in the host application starts the kernel program running on the GPU, defining the parallel operations to repeat the same instructions across many datasets. Understanding how the kernel works and the processes involved is essential to writing efficient GPU applications. Threads, blocks, and grids provide a hierarchical approach to parallel operations. Understanding the thread hierarchy is critical to distributing work across the available CUs, managing parallel operations, and optimizing memory access. The general flow of the kernel program looks like this:

Reviewer 3: acts or act in first sentence?

Author: I think the kernel program acts

> 1.	Thread Grouping: As described in :ref:`inherent_thread_model`, threads are organized into a hierarchy consisting of threads which are individual instances of parallel operations, blocks that group the threads together, and grids that group blocks into the kernel. Each thread runs an instance of the kernel in parallel with other threads in the block. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1.	Thread Grouping: As described in :ref:`inherent_thread_model`, threads are organized into a hierarchy consisting of threads, which are individual instances of parallel operations, blocks that group the threads, and grids that group blocks into the kernel. Each thread runs an instance of the kernel in parallel with other threads in the block. 
```

2.	Indexing: The kernel computes the unique index for each thread to access the relevant data to be processed by the thread.  

> 3.	Data Fetch: Threads fetch input data from memory previously transferred from the host to the device. As described in :ref:`memory_hierarchy`, the hierarchy of threads is influenced by the memory subsystem of GPUs. The memory hierarchy includes local memory per-thread with very fast access, shared memory for the block of threads which also supports quick access, and larger amounts of global memory visible to the whole kernel,but accesses are expensive due to high latency. Understanding the memory model is a key concept for kernel programming.

Reviewer 3: Is "very fast access" the right phrase?
perhaps high-speed?

Author: I think very fast, quick, and slow are intended to be gradients.

> 4.	Computation: Threads perform the required computations on the input data, and generate any needed output. Each thread of the kernel runs the same instruction simultaneously on the different datasets. This sometimes require multiple iterations when the number of operations exceeds the resources of the CU. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4.	Computation: Threads perform the required computations on the input data and generate any needed output. Each kernel thread runs the same instruction simultaneously on the different datasets. This sometimes require multiple iterations when the number of operations exceeds the resources of the CU. 
```

Author: I think the idea is that the kernel runs in multiple threads, each a variation of the kernel.

5.	Synchronization: When needed, threads synchronize within their block to ensure correct results when working with shared memory.

Kernels are parallel programs that execute the same instruction set across multiple threads, organized in wavefronts, as described below and as demonstrated in the `Hello World tutorial <https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-examples/tree/develop/HIP-Basic/hello_world>`_ or :doc:`../tutorial/saxpy`. However, heterogeneous GPU applications can also become quite complex, managing hundreds, thousands, or hundreds of thousands of operations with repeated data transfers between host and device to support massive parallelization, using multiple streams to manage concurrent asynchronous operations, using rich libraries of functions optimized for GPU hardware as described in the `ROCm documentation <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/en/latest/>`_. 

.. _programming_model_simt:

Single instruction multiple threads (SIMT)
==========================================

> The HIP kernel code, which is written as a series of scalar instructions for multiple

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The HIP kernel code, written as a series of scalar instructions for multiple
```

threads with different thread indices, gets mapped to the SIMD units of the GPUs.
Every single instruction, which is executed for every participating thread of a
kernel, gets mapped to the SIMD.

This is done by grouping threads into warps, which contain as many threads as there
are physical lanes in a SIMD, and issuing that instruction to the SIMD for every

> warp of a kernel. Ideally the SIMD is always fully utilized, however if the number of threads

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
warp of a kernel. Ideally, the SIMD is always fully utilized. However, if the number of threads
```

can't be evenly divided by the warpSize, then the unused lanes are masked out
from the corresponding SIMD execution.

.. _simt:

.. figure:: ../data/understand/programming_model/simt-execution-revised.svg

>   :alt: Diagram depicting the SIMT execution model. There is a red rectangle 

Reviewer 3: should some of this alt text be in the actual text - it's not easy to get to this info. 
I won't remark on this again.

Author: Not necessary

        arrows that point to Thread 0,1,2, and 3. Each thread contains different
        values for b, c, and a, showing the parallel operations of this equation. 

  Instruction flow of a sample SIMT program

A kernel follows the same C++ rules as the functions on the host, but it has a special ``__global__`` label to mark it for execution on the device, as shown in the following example:

.. code-block:: cpp

  __global__ void AddKernel(float* a, const float* b)
  {
    int global_idx = threadIdx.x + blockIdx.x * blockDim.x;

    a[global_idx] += b[global_idx];
  }

One of the first things you might notice is the usage of the special ``threadIdx``,
``blockIdx`` and ``blockDim`` variables. Unlike normal C++ host functions, a kernel
is not launched once, but as often as specified by the user. Each of these instances
is a separate thread, with its own values for ``threadIdx``, ``blockIdx`` and ``blockDim``.

The kernel program is launched from the host application using a language extension
called the triple chevron syntax, which looks like the following: 

.. code-block:: cpp

  AddKernel<<<number_of_blocks, threads_per_block>>>(a, b);

> Inside the angle brackets you provide the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Inside the angle brackets, provide the following:
```

* The number of blocks to launch, which defines the grid size (relating to blockDim). 
* The number of threads in a block, which defines the block size (relating to blockIdx). 
* The amount of shared memory to allocate by the host, not specified above.
* The device stream to enqueue the operation on, not specified above so the default stream is used. 

.. note::
  The kernel can also be launched through other methods, such as the ``hipLaunchKernel()`` function. 

> Here the total number of threads launched for the ``AddKernel`` program is defined by

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here, the total number of threads launched for the ``AddKernel`` program is defined by
```

``number_of_blocks *  threads_per_block``. You define these values when launching the
kernel program to address the problem to be solved with the available resources within
the system. In other words, the thread configuration is customized to the needs of the
operations and the available hardware. 

For comparison, the ``AddKernel`` program could be written in plain C++ as a ``FOR`` loop:

.. code-block:: cpp

  for(int i = 0; i < (number_of_blocks * threads_per_block); ++i){
    a[i] += b[i];
  }

In HIP, lanes of the SIMD architecture are fed by mapping threads of a SIMT
execution, one thread down each lane of an SIMD engine. Execution parallelism
usually isn't exploited from the width of the built-in vector types, but across
multiple threads via the thread ID constants ``threadIdx.x``, ``blockIdx.x``, etc.

.. _inherent_thread_model:

Hierarchical thread model
---------------------

> As previously discussed, all threads of a kernel are uniquely identified by a set

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As previously discussed, all kernel threads are uniquely identified by a set
```

of integral values called thread IDs. The hierarchy consists of three levels: thread,
blocks, and grids.

* Threads are single instances of kernel operations, running concurrently across warps
* Blocks group threads together and enable cooperation and shared memory
* Grids define the number of thread blocks for a single kernel launch

> * Blocks, and grids can be defined in 3 dimensions (``x``, ``y``, ``z``)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Blocks and grids can be defined in 3 dimensions (``x``, ``y``, ``z``)
```

.. _programming_model:

*******************************************************************************
Introduction to HIP programming model
*******************************************************************************

> 

Author: .. RJH>> Put whatever here...

to quickly execute a single thread, decreasing the time it takes for a single
operation, increasing the amount of serial instructions that can be executed.
This includes fetching data, and reducing pipeline stalls where the ALU has to
wait for previous instructions to finish. CPUs provide low latency processing for
serial instructions, but also lower throughput overall. Latency is the speed of
an operation, while throughput is the number of operations completed in a unit of
time. On CPUs the goal is to quickly process operations. 

On the other hand, GPUs have been designed to execute many similar commands, or threads, in parallel,
achieving high throughput, but also higher latency. For the GPU, the objective is
to process as many operations in parallel, rather than to finish a single instruction
quickly. GPUs in general are made up of basic building blocks called compute units (CUs),
that execute the threads of a kernel. These CUs provide the necessary resources
for the threads: the Arithmetic Logical Units (ALUs), register files, caches and
shared memory for efficient communication between the threads.

> The following defines a few hardware differences between CPUs and GPUs: 

Reviewer: Rather than going into these hardware differences, it would be better to highlight the benefits these hardware differences bring to the CPU and GPU (e.g. optimized for serial operations vs optimized for parallel operations, etc)

3.	Data Fetch: Threads fetch input data from memory previously transferred from the host to the device.
4.	Computation: Threads perform the required computations on the input data, and generate any needed output.
5.	Synchronization: When needed, threads synchronize within their block to ensure correct results when working with shared memory.

Kernels can be simple single instruction programs deployed across multiple threads in wavefronts, as described below and as demonstrated in the `Hello World tutorial <https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-examples/tree/develop/HIP-Basic/hello_world>`_ or :doc:`../tutorial/saxpy`. However, heterogeneous GPU applications can also become quite complex, managing hundreds or thousands of threads with repeated data transfers between host and device to support massive parallelization, using multiple streams to manage concurrent asynchronous operations, using rich libraries of functions optimized for GPU hardware as described in the `ROCm documentation <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/en/latest/>`_. 

.. _programming_model_simt:

Single instruction multiple threads (SIMT)
==========================================

> The HIP kernel code, which is written as a series of scalar instructions for multiple threads with different thread indices, gets mapped to the SIMD units of the GPUs.

Reviewer: A visual representation of this would be handy for users to better understand this concept, e.g. to show how a single instruction in a for loop that does something maps to a thread within a warp/block

* 1 dimensional: array processing, linear data structures, or sequential data transformation
* 2 dimensional: Image processing, matrix operations, 2 dimensional simulations
* 3 dimensions: Volume rendering, 3D scientific simulations, spatial algorithms

Cooperative groups thread model
-------------------------------

The Cooperative groups API introduces new functions to launch, group, subdivide,
synchronize and identify threads, as well as some predefined group-collective
algorithms. Most importantly it offers a matching thread model to think of the
cooperative groups in terms of. It relaxes some restrictions of the :ref:`inherent_thread_model`
imposed by the strict 1:1 mapping of architectural details to the programming model.
Cooperative groups let you define your own set of thread groups which may better
fit your use-case than the defaults defined by the hardware.

.. note::
  The implicit groups defined by kernel launch parameters are still available
  when working with cooperative groups.

For further information, see :doc:`Cooperative groups </how-to/hip_runtime_api/cooperative_groups>`.

.. _memory_hierarchy:

Memory model

> ============

Reviewer: I suggest a short introduction, e.g.

"The GPU memory architecture is designed to support parallel execution across the thread hierarchy. Understanding the following memory spaces and their relationships to thread groupings is crucial for efficient GPU programming"

> The thread structure of the :ref:`inherent_thread_model` is supported by the memory

Reviewer: Maybe add a note under this paragraph that says

"The choice of memory type and access patterns significantly impacts kernel performance."

  that they can use to share data or synchronize with one another, as described in
  :ref:`memory_hierarchy`.

  The size of a block, or the block dimension, is the user-configurable number of
  threads per block, but is limited by the queryable capabilities of the executing
  hardware. The unique ID of the thread within a block can be 1, 2, or 3-dimensional
  as provided by the HIP API. You can configure the thread block to best represent
  the data associated with the kernel instruction set. 
  
  .. note::
    When linearizing thread IDs within a block, assume the *fast index* is the ``x``
    dimension, followed by the ``y`` and ``z`` dimensions.

.. _inherent_thread_hierarchy_grid:

Grid
  The top-most level of the thread hierarchy is a grid. A grid is the number of blocks
  needed for a single launch of the kernel. The unique ID of each block within
  a grid can be 1, 2, or 3-dimensional, as provided by the API and is queryable
  by every thread within the block.

The three-dimensional thread hierarchy available to a kernel program lends itself to solutions
that align closely to the computational problem. The following are some examples: 

> * 1 dimensional: array processing, linear data structures, or sequential data transformation
> * 2 dimensional: Image processing, matrix operations, 2 dimensional simulations
> * 3 dimensions: Volume rendering, 3D scientific simulations, spatial algorithms

Author: ```suggestion
* 1-dimensional: array processing, linear data structures, or sequential data transformation
* 2-dimensional: Image processing, matrix operations, 2 dimensional simulations
* 3-dimensional: Volume rendering, 3D scientific simulations, spatial algorithms
```

  that they can use to share data or synchronize with one another, as described in
  :ref:`memory_hierarchy`.

  The size of a block, or the block dimension, is the user-configurable number of
  threads per block, but is limited by the queryable capabilities of the executing
  hardware. The unique ID of the thread within a block can be 1, 2, or 3-dimensional
  as provided by the HIP API. You can configure the thread block to best represent
  the data associated with the kernel instruction set. 
  
  .. note::
    When linearizing thread IDs within a block, assume the *fast index* is the ``x``
    dimension, followed by the ``y`` and ``z`` dimensions.

.. _inherent_thread_hierarchy_grid:

Grid
  The top-most level of the thread hierarchy is a grid. A grid is the number of blocks
  needed for a single launch of the kernel. The unique ID of each block within
  a grid can be 1, 2, or 3-dimensional, as provided by the API and is queryable
  by every thread within the block.

The three-dimensional thread hierarchy available to a kernel program lends itself to solutions
that align closely to the computational problem. The following are some examples: 

> * 1 dimensional: array processing, linear data structures, or sequential data transformation

Reviewer 3: should these be hyphenated  
for example:
1-dimensional

Author: Probably.

* 2 dimensional: Image processing, matrix operations, 2 dimensional simulations
* 3 dimensions: Volume rendering, 3D scientific simulations, spatial algorithms

Cooperative groups thread model
-------------------------------

The Cooperative groups API introduces new functions to launch, group, subdivide,
synchronize and identify threads, as well as some predefined group-collective

> algorithms. Most importantly it offers a matching thread model to think of the

Reviewer 3: There's something odd with this sentence:
Most importantly it offers a matching thread model to think of the cooperative groups in terms of.

Perhaps:
Most importantly it offers a matching thread model of cooperative groups.

Local or per-thread memory
  Read-write storage only visible to the threads defining the given variables,
  also called per-thread memory. This is the default memory namespace.
  The size of the blocks for a given kernel, and thereby the number of concurrent
  warps, are limited by local memory usage. This relates to the *occupancy* of the
  CU as described in :doc:`Compute Units <./hardware_implementation>`,
  an important concept in resource usage and performance optimization. 

  Use local memory when the data is specific to a thread, to store variables generated
  by the thread, or to provide register pressure relief for the thread. 

Shared memory
  Read-write storage visible to all the threads in a given block. Use shared memory
  when the data is reused within a thread block, when cross-thread communication
  is needed, or to minimize global memory transactions by using device memory
  whenever possible. 

Global
  Read-write storage visible to all threads in a given grid. There are
  specialized versions of global memory with different usage semantics which
  are typically backed by the same hardware storing global. 

>   Use global memory when you have large datasets, are transferring memory between

Reviewer 3: this could be a bulleted list

  Surface
    A read-write version of texture memory.

Memory optimizations and best practices
---------------------------------------

.. figure:: ../data/understand/programming_model/memory-access.svg
  :alt: Diagram depicting an example memory access pattern for coalesced memory. 

>         The diagram has uncoalesced access on the left side, with consecutive

Author: ```suggestion
        The diagram has un-coalesced access on the left side, with consecutive
```

>         The diagram has un-coalesced access on the left side, with consecutive

Author: ```suggestion
        The diagram has uncoalesced access on the left side, with consecutive
```

All asynchronous APIs, such as kernel execution, data movement and potentially data
allocation/freeing all happen in the context of device streams, as described in `Managing streams <../how-to/hip_runtime_api/asynchronous.html#managing-streams>`_.

Streams are FIFO buffers of commands to execute relating to a given device.
Operations that enqueue tasks on a stream all return promptly, and the command is
executed asynchronously. All side effects of a command on a stream are visible
to all subsequent commands on the same stream. Multiple streams may point to
the same device and those streams may be fed from multiple concurrent host-side
threads. Execution on multiple streams may be concurrent but isn't required to
be.

Asynchronous APIs involving a stream all return a stream event, which can be
used to synchronize the execution of multiple streams. A user may enqueue a
barrier onto a stream referencing an event. The barrier will block activity on the
stream until the operation related to the event completes. After the event completes, all
side effects of the operation will be visible to subsequent commands even if those
side effects manifest on different devices.

> .. figure:: ../data/understand/programming_model/stream-workflow.sv

Author: ```suggestion
.. figure:: ../data/understand/programming_model/stream-workflow.svg
```

> .. figure:: ../data/understand/programming_model/stream-workflow.svg

Author: ```suggestion
.. figure:: ../data/understand/programming_model/stream-workflow.sv
```

* **Global memory**: Coalescing reduces the number of memory transactions.

  Coalesced memory access in HIP refers to the optimization of memory transactions to maximize throughput when accessing global memory. When a kernel accesses global memory, the memory transactions typically occur in chunks of 32, 64, or 128 bytes, which must be naturally aligned. Coalescing memory accesses means aligning and organizing these accesses so that multiple threads in a warp can combine their memory requests into the fewest possible transactions. If threads access memory in a coalesced manner, meaning consecutive threads read or write consecutive memory locations, the memory controller can merge these accesses into a single transaction. This is crucial because global memory bandwidth is relatively low compared to on-chip bandwidths, and non-optimal memory accesses can significantly impact performance. If all the threads in a warp can access consecutive memory locations, memory access is fully coalesced. 

  To achieve coalesced memory access in HIP, you should:

>   1. *Align Data*: Use data types that are naturally aligned and ensure that structures and arrays are aligned properly.

Reviewer 3: why italics here?

  2. *Optimize Access Patterns*: Arrange memory accesses so that consecutive threads in a warp access consecutive memory locations. For example, if threads access a 2D array, the array and thread block widths should be multiples of the warp size.
  3. *Avoid strided access*: For example array[i * stride] can lead to memory bank conflicts and inefficient access.
  4. *Pad Data*: If necessary, pad data structures to ensure alignment and coalescing.

> * **Shared memory**: Avoiding bank conflicts reduces serialization of memory transactions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Shared memory**: Avoiding bank conflicts reduces the serialization of memory transactions.
```

>   Shared memory is a small, fast memory region inside the CU. Unlike global memory, shared memory accesses do not require coalescing, but they can suffer from bank conflicts, which are another form of inefficient memory access. Shared memory is divided into multiple memory banks (usually 32 banks on modern GPUs). If multiple threads within a warp try to access different addresses that map to the same memory bank, accesses get serialized, leading to poor performance. To optimize shared memory usage ensure that consecutive threads access different memory banks. Use padding if necessary to avoid conflicts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Shared memory is a small, fast memory region inside the CU. Unlike global memory, shared memory accesses do not require coalescing, but they can suffer from bank conflicts, which are another form of inefficient memory access. Shared memory is divided into multiple memory banks (usually 32 banks on modern GPUs). If multiple threads within a warp try to access different addresses that map to the same memory bank, accesses get serialized, leading to poor performance. To optimize shared memory usage, ensure that consecutive threads access different memory banks. Use padding if necessary to avoid conflicts.
```

* **Unified memory**: Structured access reduces the overhead of page migrations.

  Unified memory allows the CPU and GPU to share memory seamlessly, but performance depends on access patterns. Unified memory enables automatic page migration between CPU and GPU memory. However, if different threads access different pages, it can lead to expensive page migrations and slow throughput performance. Accessing unified memory in a structured, warp-friendly manner reduces unnecessary page transfers. Ensure threads access memory in a structured, consecutive manner, minimizing page faults. Prefetch data to the GPU before computation by using ``hipMemPrefetchAsync()``. In addition, using small batch transfers as described below, can reduce unexpected page migrations when using unified memory. 

* **Small batch transfers**: Enable pipelining and improve PCIe bandwidth use.

>   Memory transfers between the host and the device can become a major bottleneck if not optimized. One method is to use small batch memory transfers where data is transferred in smaller chunks instead of a dealing with large datasets to avoid long blocking operations. Small batch transfers offer better PCIe bandwidth utilization over large data transfers. Small batch transfers offer performance improvement by offering reduced latency with small batches that run asynchronously using ``hipMemcpyAsync()`` as described in :ref:`asynchronous_how-to`, pipelining data transfers and kernel execution using separate streams. Finally, using pinned memory with small batch transfers enables faster DMA transfers without CPU involvement, greatly improving memory transfer performance. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Memory transfers between the host and the device can become a major bottleneck if not optimized. One method is to use small batch memory transfers where data is transferred in smaller chunks instead of dealing with large datasets to avoid long blocking operations. Small batch transfers offer better PCIe bandwidth utilization over large data transfers. Small batch transfers offer performance improvement by offering reduced latency with small batches that run asynchronously using ``hipMemcpyAsync()`` as described in :ref:`asynchronous_how-to`, pipelining data transfers and kernel execution using separate streams. Finally, using pinned memory with small batch transfers enables faster DMA transfers without CPU involvement, greatly improving memory transfer performance. 
```

Reviewer 3: "long blocking operations"
better phrase?
not sure

Execution model
===============

As previously discussed in :ref:`heterogeneous_programming`, HIP programs consist of two distinct scopes:

* The host-side API running on the host processor. 
* The device-side kernels running on GPUs. 

Both the host and the device-side APIs have synchronous and asynchronous functions.

Host-side execution
-------------------

> The host-side API dealing with device management and their queries are synchronous.

Reviewer 3: is "dealing" the right word?

All asynchronous APIs, such as kernel execution, data movement and potentially data
allocation/freeing all happen in the context of device streams.

> Streams are FIFO buffers of commands to execute relating to a given device.

Reviewer 4: Please add a link to streams here:
https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/HIP/en/latest/how-to/hip_runtime_api/asynchronous.html#streams-and-concurrent-execution

Author: Added link

> Operations which enqueue tasks on a stream all return promptly and the command is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Operations that enqueue tasks on a stream all return promptly, and the command is
```

> Asynchronous APIs involving a stream all return a stream event which may be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Asynchronous APIs involving a stream all return a stream event, which can be
```

used to synchronize the execution of multiple streams. A user may enqueue a
barrier onto a stream referencing an event. The barrier will block activity on the
stream until the operation related to the event completes. After the event completes, all
side effects of the operation will be visible to subsequent commands even if those
side effects manifest on different devices.

.. figure:: ../data/understand/programming_model/stream-workflow.svg
  :alt: Diagram depicting the stream and event workflow, with an example of
        multiple streams working together. The diagram shows operations as red
        rectangles, and events as white dots. There are three streams labelled
        Stream 1, 2, and 3. The streams each have multiple operations and events
        that require synchronization between the streams. 

  Multiple stream workflow

> Streams also support executing user-defined functions as callbacks on the host.
> The stream will not launch subsequent commands until the callback completes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Streams also support executing user-defined functions as callbacks on the host.
The stream will not launch subsequent commands until the callback is completed.
```

Device-side execution
---------------------

Kernels may be launched in multiple ways, all with different syntaxes and

> intended use-cases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
intended use cases.
```

There is also the producer-consumer paradigm that can be used to convert a sequential program into parallel operations to improve performance. This process can employ multiple streams to kick off asynchronous kernels, provide data to the kernels, perform operations, and return the results for further processing in the host application. 

These asynchronous activities call for stream management strategies. In the case of the single stream, the only management would be the synchronization of the stream when the work was complete. However, with multiple streams, you have overlapping execution of operations, and synchronization becomes more complex. You need to manage the activities of each stream, evaluating the availability of results, evaluate the critical path of the tasks, allocate resources on the hardware, and manage the execution order. 

All of this could probably use some examples. Let us know where you find them. 

Multi-GPU and Load Balancing
----------------------------

> Large-scale applications that need more compute power can use multiple GPUs in

Reviewer: I suggest 

"For applications requiring additional computational power beyond a single device, HIP supports utilizing multiple GPUs within a system."

into parallel operations to improve performance. This process can employ multiple
streams to kick off asynchronous kernels, provide data to the kernels, perform operations,
and return the results for further processing in the host application. 

These asynchronous activities call for stream management strategies. In the case
of the single stream, the only management would be the stream synchronization
when the work was complete. However, with multiple streams you have
overlapping execution of operations and synchronization becomes more complex, as shown
in the variations of the example in `Programmatic dependent launch and synchronization <../how-to/hip_runtime_api/asynchronous.html#programmatic-dependent-launch-and-synchronization>`_.  
You need to manage each stream's activities, evaluate the availability of results, evaluate the critical path of the tasks, allocate resources on the hardware, and manage the execution order.

Multi-GPU and load balancing
----------------------------

For applications requiring additional computational power beyond a single device,
HIP supports utilizing multiple GPUs within a system. Large-scale applications

> that need more compute power can use multiple GPUs in the system. This requires
> distributing workloads across multiple GPUs to balance the load to prevent GPUs
> from being over-utilized while others are idle.

Author: ```suggestion
that need more compute power can use multiple GPUs in the system. This enables
the runtime to distribute workloads across multiple GPUs to balance the load and prevent some GPUs
from being over-utilized while others are idle. 
```

> For more information, see :ref:`multi-device` .

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information, see :ref:`multi-device`.
```

    ``HIP_TEMPLATE_KERNEL_LAUNCH`` preprocessor macro before including the HIP
    headers to turn it into a templated function.

Asynchronous execution
----------------------

Asynchronous operations between the host and the kernel provide a variety of opportunities,
or challenges, for managing synchronization, as described in :ref:`asynchronous_how-to`.

> For instance, a basic model would be to launch an asynchronous operation on a kernel
> in a stream, create an event to track the operation, continue operations in the host
> program, and when the asynchronous operation completes synchronize the kernel to return
> the results. 

Author: ```suggestion
For instance, a basic model would be to launch an asynchronous operation on a kernel
in a stream, create an event to track the operation, continue operations in the host
program, and when the event shows that the asynchronous operation is complete,  synchronize the kernel to return the results. 
```

.. code_block:: cpp

  // Create a HIP stream  
  hipStream_t stream;  
  hipStreamCreate(&stream);  

  // Launch the kernel asynchronously  
  myKernel<<<dataSize / 256, 256, 0, stream>>>(d_data);  

  // Perform continued host processing here  
  // This could be any CPU-bound work that doesn't depend on the kernel's result  
  doHostProcessing();  

  // Synchronize the stream to ensure kernel execution is complete  
  hipStreamSynchronize(stream);  

  // Any host processing that depends on the kernel's result should occur after synchronization  
  processKernelResults();  

  // Copy the result back to the host  
  hipMemcpy(...);  

However, one of the opportunities of asynchronous operation is the pipelining of operations between launching kernels and transferring memory. In this case you would be working with multiple streams running concurrently, or at least overlapping in some regard, and managing any dependencies between the streams in the host application. 

> .. code_block:: cpp

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: cpp
```

Reviewer 4: Do we really need these examples? Should we just link the Asynchronous concurrent execution page?

https://advanced-micro-devices-demo--3739.com.readthedocs.build/projects/HIP/en/3739/how-to/hip_runtime_api/asynchronous.html#example

Author: Removed

                              hipMemcpyDeviceToHost, streams[i]));
    }

    // Wait for completion and validate
    for (auto stream : streams) {
      hip_check(hipStreamSynchronize(stream));
    }

    bool passed = true;
    for (int i = 0; i < n_elements; i++) {
      if (std::abs(h_c[i] - h_ref[i]) > 1e-5f) {
        std::cerr << "Validation failed at " << i << ": "
                  << h_c[i] << " != " << h_ref[i] << std::endl;
        passed = false;
        break;
      }
    }

    // Cleanup
    for (auto stream : streams) {
      hip_check(hipStreamDestroy(stream));
    }
    hip_check(hipFree(d_a));
    hip_check(hipFree(d_b));
    hip_check(hipFree(d_c));

    std::cout << "Pipeline example " << (passed ? "PASSED" : "FAILED") << std::endl;
    return passed ? 0 : 1;
  }

There is also the producer-consumer paradigm that can be used to convert a sequential program into parallel operations to improve performance. This process can employ multiple streams to kick off asynchronous kernels, provide data to the kernels, perform operations, and return the results for further processing in the host application. 

> .. code_block:: cpp

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: cpp
```

  #include <hip/hip_runtime.h>
  #include <iostream>
  #include <vector>
  #include <cmath>

>   #define hip_check(hip_call)                                                   \

Reviewer 4: Use the following macro which is extended with std::abort(), if you want:

https://advanced-micro-devices-demo--3739.com.readthedocs.build/projects/HIP/en/3739/how-to/hip_runtime_api/error_handling.html#hip-check-macros

Author: Removed example

>     ``HIP_TEMPLATE_KERNEL_LAUNCH`` preprocessor macro before including the HIP

Reviewer 3: Three lines above:
This name, by default, is a macro...

Author: fixed

    headers to turn it into a templated function.

Asynchronous execution
----------------------

> Asynchronous operations between the host and the kernel provide a variety of opportunities,
> or challenges, for managing synchronization, as described in :ref:`asynchronous_how-to`.
> For instance, a basic model would be to launch an asynchronous operation on a kernel
> in a stream, create an event to track the operation, continue operations in the host
> program, and when the asynchronous operation completes synchronize the kernel to return
> the results. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Asynchronous operations between the host and the kernel provide a variety of opportunities,
or challenges, for managing synchronization, as described in :ref:`asynchronous_how-to`.
For instance, a basic model would be to launch an asynchronous operation on a kernel
in a stream, create an event to track the operation, continue operations in the host
program, and when the asynchronous operation completes synchronize, the kernel to return
the results. 
```

Reviewer 3: having trouble with this last sentence

Author: I made a change to try to improve this.

> However, one of the opportunities of asynchronous operation is the pipelining of operations
> between launching kernels and transferring memory. In this case you would be working
> with multiple streams running concurrently, or at least overlapping in some regard,
> and managing any dependencies between the streams in the host application. There is
> also the producer-consumer paradigm that can be used to convert a sequential program
> into parallel operations to improve performance. This process can employ multiple
> streams to kick off asynchronous kernels, provide data to the kernels, perform operations,
> and return the results for further processing in the host application. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, one of the opportunities of asynchronous operation is the pipelining of operations
between launching kernels and transferring memory. In this case, you would be working
with multiple streams running concurrently, or at least overlapping in some regard,
and managing any dependencies between the streams in the host application. 
The producer-consumer paradigm can be used to convert a sequential program
into parallel operations to improve performance. This process can employ multiple
streams to kick off asynchronous kernels, provide data to the kernels, perform operations,
and return the results for further processing in the host application. 
```

> These asynchronous activities call for stream management strategies. In the case
> of the single stream, the only management would be the synchronization of the
> stream when the work was complete. However, with multiple streams you have

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These asynchronous activities call for stream management strategies. In the case
of the single stream, the only management would be the stream synchronization
when the work was complete. However, with multiple streams you have
```

overlapping execution of operations and synchronization becomes more complex, as shown
in the variations of the example in `Programmatic dependent launch and synchronization <../how-to/hip_runtime_api/asynchronous.html#programmatic-dependent-launch-and-synchronization>`_.  
You need to manage the activities of each stream, evaluating the availability of
results, evaluate the critical path of the tasks, allocate resources on the hardware,

> and manage the execution order. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You need to manage each stream's activities, evaluate the availability of results, evaluate the critical path of the tasks, allocate resources on the hardware, and manage the execution order.
```
